I'm curious if you have thoughts
that you can share on where or
if you think QA fits into
the software development life cycle?
Is there a strong need for
QA, do you think?
>> Yeah, so that's a good question.
So QA is kind of, you can think
of it in a lot of different ways.
The old way of doing QA, which literally
was like they fully test everything,
or the new way of QA, which kind of helps
the developers make assertion frameworks.
So, in order to have this freedom
to do all of these things,
you have to set up your
environment in the right way.
Some of things are gonna be pretty
obvious and we are gonna talk about it,
other things are gonna
be more complicated.
Like, how do you set up UI testing, right?
It's kind of in this semi-valid excuse.
That gets complicated.
And so a place where QA can help is
to create kind of a testing framework
which we call pages, into the system so
that you create a good DSL,
good domain specific language, for the
developers to express themselves, right?
So that's one thing.
The other thing a QA can do is you
as a developer produce the system,
hopefully in a testable way, and
then over time issues are discovered.
And so when a particular issue is
discovered, you should always create
a regression test saying, hey,
this is an issue that we missed.
And this is another useful thing to do for
a QA, which is, hey,
using these domain-specific languages,
can I recreate this particular scenario?
And it is so much helpful, then, to just
give the scenario over to the developer
and be, hey, this needs to be fixed.
The other thing that's useful is
oftentimes scenarios are complicated.
And a lot of it is just randomly like,
hey,
this is a complicated
scenario that I've recreated.
It's gonna be super difficult for
me to debug or figure out what's going
on under it, let me simplify it, right?
Let's just randomly start
deleting portions of
the code until the test no longer fails,
right?
And what you're doing over there is you,
without having any knowledge
about how the system works or
knowledge about why the test is failing,
you get to whittle down the scenario and
the simplest possible thing.
And those are all useful
things that you can do.
Now, it does mean that the QA
has to be more technical, right?
It's not the old style, just throw a bunch
of people and have them click around,
which is by the way a boring job that
nobody wants to do anyways, right?
You wanna just automate it so that it's
both faster, you get better results.
And I think the role of a QA,
it becomes more of how do I build
up more infrastructure to enable
more expressive tests, right?
Because one of the things that we're gonna
talk about is you wanna have your tests to
be easy to read.
Because remember,
we said it's a form of documentation.
So when you come to a test, it should be
obvious what scenario you are testing.
And I oftentimes see these super
complicated tests where you're like,
what in the world are you
trying to tell me, right?
How am I supposed to reason
about this particular thing?
And people just don't spend enough time
either whittling down the test to the bare
minimum, or giving proper names to things
so that it creates a nice, useful story.
>> Someone asked,
is testing language dependent?
>> Is testing language dependent?
It's a good question.
Mostly I would say no.
Whatever is a good testing practice in any
one language should also be true in other
languages.
Now it is true that some languages make
this easier than others, because, for
example, JavaScript is duck-typed, right?
If it walks like a duck,
walks like a duck, it's a duck.
It makes it easier to create mocks and
hack things around inside
of your code base.
Not necessarily that you should do that,
but
it is a tool that you have that you
might not have in other languages.
So for example, if you are in C,
which is everything strongly typed,
if somebody doesn't give you an interface,
it makes it really difficult,
if not impossible,
to do anything about it.
Whereas if you're in JavaScript and
if somebody doesn't give you an interface,
if you're creative enough, maybe you can
hack the require or the import system or
something like that to get what you want.
Is it the best way of testing?
No, but it does give you slightly more
freedom in kind of the corner cases.
But I still would say, hey, the best thing
to do is to just design your code base to
be testable to begin with.
>> What's the role of AI in testing?
Do you think it could replace it?
>> That is an excellent question.
So let's take a little
bit of a diversion here.
So the role of AI,
I remember about 15, 20 years ago,
there was a company that was trying
to write a piece of software.
I don't think they succeeded at this.
And I forgot the name of the company.
But the idea was that you as
a developer write the application and
then the software will generate the tests.
And I think that's fundamentally flawed
because you can replace that company or
the software with AI.
It's the same exact thing.
The reason I think it's fundamentally
flawed is because I think you have it
backwards, right?
What you're saying is like,
here is a real working system,
try to figure out what
the requirements were.
That's not how people work,
it's the other way around.
Let me give you requirements
you tell me what the system is.
So I actually think that the role
of AI would be useful and
it's actually reversed in the sense
that as a developer, what I really wanna
do is write a whole bunch of tests
showing you, hey, let me demonstrate you,
I want the software that does this,
this, this, and this.
And let the AI or some tool automatically
generate the actual behavior, right?
So you want to do it backwards.
But because historically we've
been the ones writing the code,
we're coming at it from the angle of,
here's the code base,
go generate some tests for you because
I hear tests are a good idea, right?
But that completely misses the quality
of it because testing is about
having a software that's well designed.
And if the tool or
the AI is unable to change your design,
then there's very limited kind of quality
of the test that you can produce.
But when you flip it around, you create
tests first, and you let the AI produce
the output, I think that's actually
viable and workable things.
And I think we're getting there,
because when you have the co-pilot,
it is remarkable sometimes
what the co-pilot produces.
Like there are moments where I'm,
how in the world did you figure this out?
But I'm, I'm gonna go with it cuz I
think it's actually the right thing.
The other thing I wanna point out
is if your code is not testable,
the kind of test that you end up with
are tests that are hard to read.
Because you are desperately
trying to work around
the limitations of a code base
that doesn't wanna be tested.
But if you flip it around and you say,
I'm gonna write the test first,
nobody in their right mind will
write a hard-to-read test, right,
that's not how it works, right?
You start with a simple to
read simple scenario test and
then you're producing the output, right?
So, if you start test first, or
this is what people talk about test-driven
development, of course, your test will be
pretty and simple and easy to read and
easy to reason about because, well,
that's the path of least resistance.
You write a simple test case, and
then you write the code, right?
You don't write the code and
then scratch your head,
how in the world am I gonna test this
thing and then end up with some kludgy,
complicated thing that's
difficult to reason about, right?
So there's a very convoluted way of saying
is that I think historically people just
have the wrong thing in their heads.
They assume that it's all about
the code and the tests are secondary,
whereas I really would like to flip
this in your head and say, no, no, no,
the tests are the driving forces here and
the code is the secondary part.
Yes, we want code, and at the end of the
day the code is the thing that will do and
solve and
build the application that we want.
But think of the tests as
the requirements, the description,
the documentation,
the thing that keeps your team together,
the way of explaining how
the system works to your teammates.
All of those things is what tests are.